OK welcome back in this lecture one of the US negotiating offers.
So you did all the hard work of creating your resume applying for jobs you've gone through the entire
interview pipeline and you've gotten the offers in the ideal situation you're going to have a few competing
offers.
Let's go ahead and discuss how to handle this last the very crucial part of the job search process.
So a couple of key things you should be aware of and the first thing to be aware of is that compensation
is not just salary compensation it's going to be your salary your bonuses equity stock.
And there's also benefits like your 401k health insurance.
Some of these things are a little more common in the U.S. than in an international market where maybe
health insurance provided by the state or furrowing hasn't really exist.
But the sort of benefits you should be aware of them as your total compensation package.
So don't just look at salary by itself.
Keep in mind the entire package of compensation when you're negotiating for your offer.
Now as far as some individual components of that compensation or concern for salary to decide whether
or not you're getting a fair shake on salary or good offer on salary there's lots of really good tools
out there online that allow you to compare salaries for people in similar positions.
A glass door is a really good Web site not just for reviews of companies but they also have self-reported
anonymous salaries there so you can take a look at the actual company you're applying to and seeing
if people have posted their salary onto glass door.
Keep in mind Glassdoor is self-reported.
There's a really great Web site called H1-B data info.
And this Web site is actually the exact salary people are getting paid.
So what happens at least in the United States is if a foreign worker ends up getting a job that could
have gone to a American citizen.
The company is legally required to post and inform the public of the salary.
So you can actually figure out the exact salary certain people are getting paid for for positions in
the United States.
So you can go to H1-B data info and that's going to give you a really clear idea of what the actual
real salaries people are getting paid for.
Keep in mind it is going to be a little skewed based off the sampling they are sometimes really high
salaries because they're specifically reaching out to kind of international populations to bring really
skilled workers to the United States.
And again a lot of this advice here is kind of really us heavy.
So I apologize if some of these resources aren't as useful to you from an international perspective.
OK.
So officials be aware of is that salaries vary by geographical location.
We should also keep in mind of cost of living for certain areas so San Francisco salaries tend to be
much much higher than salaries in other locations.
But that's also because the cost of living there is so much greater should also keep in mind like I
mentioned before salary isn't the only aspect of compensation.
So when it comes to things like stock and equity in a company for startups and smaller companies compensation
it may rely more heavily on stock equity and stock and equity in general.
It's actually really complex and it varies drastically between companies.
And I would really advice you that if you're getting an offer where stock is or equity in the company
is a major part of your compensation maybe you're getting some heavy really reduced salary and it's
being made up for an equity you should seek the advice of someone who's a legal expert in equity because
it can be really complex.
Equity can be diluted as more people come on and you can definitely check out the resource links that
are available to you where there's a lot of great entrepreneurs and VC advisors who have written in
great detail some of the complexities and issues to watch out for when it comes to equity.
But again definitely take your time.
As far as considering any offer where stock an equity is a major part of the compensation package so
as you just mentioned you can check other resources in the lecture for detailed writeups on equity and
you should definitely seek the advice of a legal professional if that's a major part of your compensation.
Now there are other important considerations and research has shown that job satisfaction is actually
most directly connected to who your manager is your day to day activities your growth potential and
your environment how much you're actually being paid is not going to directly link to your happiness
and this may be a little more philosophical than you actually were expecting.
But keep in mind that actual research has shown that job satisfaction.
You're definitely going to want to keep in mind day to day activities and who your manager is and hopefully
your onsite interview gave you a good idea of what that would look like.
OK.
So let's actually discuss then negotiating offers.
Now that we have a clear understanding of compensation most companies in this space are going to expect
negotiation unless otherwise explicitly stated there are some companies that will explicitly state that
they do not negotiate salaries.
They just offer you the best they can.
And in that case you know you can't really negotiate much salary rise or compensation wise.
However most companies base that do not explicitly state that do expect some sort of negotiation to
occur.
So what you do not want to do is accept the offer right away.
Were you going to want to do is ask for a little time a really good tactic is if you have a significant
other tell a recruiter I would need to talk to my significant other discuss the compensation in that
way just to buy yourself a little more time to sleep on it.
Do the comparisons do the research etc..
And most companies are willing to go somewhere between 10 to 15 percent higher than their initial offer
and keep in mind that salary is not the only negotiation chip you have on the table.
Everything is open for negotiation.
You can negotiate things like more vacation time negotiate things like relocation expenses etc..
So what can you actually negotiate.
Well there are the obvious ones like say that salary an equity stock cetera.
But as I just mentioned vacation relocation expenses performance review schedules so maybe you negotiate
that your next performance review for a raise is going to occur at an accelerated rate.
So you get it maybe in six months instead of a whole year etc..
Main advice here is you should try to negotiate it for estrogen.
You never know what's negotiable unless you ask and pretty much everything to some degree can be negotiated.
Things keep in mind during this whole process.
Always be really friendly be very polite for the interviewer member it's a conversation not a debate
not an argument and you should always be reiterating your excitement and what you can bring to the company.
Make yourself very valuable to them make it clear that there is a lot that you can bring to the table
and always be friendly and polite during this whole process.
OK.
I hope that was helpful.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next section of the course.